Now let's talk about SSM Automations.
So, automations are going to help you simplify
common maintenance and deployment tasks
for your EC2 Instances or other AWS resources.
For example, using an automation, you can do some things
such as restarting an Instance,
creating an AMI or doing an EBS snapshot.
The idea is that automations are going
to be higher level, okay.
They're from outside your EC2 Instances,
whereas the Run command from before,
were from inside your EC2 Instances.
So the automation Runbook is the name
of the document for SSM that are going
to be of type Automation, okay.
So we commonly refer them as Runbook now.
And the Runbooks will do actions preformed
on your EC2 Instances or resources and AWS resources.
And you can create your own Runbook obviously,
or use the predefined Runbooks done by AWS.
So here's an example.
The SSM Automation is using the Runbooks.
They'll show automation documents.
And we can execute them on EC2 Instances.
Or specific resources, such as EBS volumes, for example,
to pro-creating snapshots, AMI to create AMIs,
or RDS for creating snapshots and so on.
Now, how do you trigger an SSM Automation?
Well, you can do it manually using the console
or using the CLI or using the SDK.
But you can also automate it by using EventBridge as a rule.
And the target of the rule will be the SSM Automation.
On a schedule, so very often using a Maintenance Window
or as a rule remediation directly,
whenever AWS Config Remi, finds out
that a resource is not compliant with the rule.
So all these options are defined right here.
So the Console, the SDK, Maintenance Windows,
EventBridge, and the Config Remediation,
can all execute the automation called AWS-RestartEC2Instance
from within the SSM automation service, okay.
So let's have a look
at how Automations work in this lecture.
So I'm gonna go on the left hand side into Automation.
So Change Management, Automation.
And I'm going to execute an Automation.
So I need to choose the document.
Again, we can write our own document
or choose the one owned by Amazon, okay.
And there are document categories, for example,
user guide tutorials, Remediation,
Patching, Security, Instance Management.
For example, common tasks for EC2
and EBS, Data Backups, AMI Management,
Self-service support workflows.
So as you can see, a lot of them
including for example, Cost Managements.
So in this example,
we can look at Instance Managements and what can happen.
So we can attach an EBS volume directly from an Automation.
We can attach an IAM role to an Instance.
We can, for example, enter an ASG
into standby or exit stand by.
So you can do a lot of different things, okay.
Detach your volume and so on.
So what I'm going to do,
is I'm going to look for Automations.
And I'm going to look for the Automation
named AWS- Restart, and that should do it.
So, AWS-RestartEC2Instance.
And so in this one, we have the RestartEC2Instance.
And what it's going to do, is that is going
to just restart our EC2 Instances.
And as you can see, we have different one.
If we wanted to have an Approval step
as part of our Automation.
So let's use this one actually.
So we're going to choose the document.
I will scroll down.
Here's the document detail. Which version do we want?
So we want the latest version. This is great.
And the Description. Click on next.
Now we need to choose
where we want this document to be executed.
So we can do a Simple Execution to execute on all targets
or a Rate Control to do it one at a time.
Or we can do Multi-account and Multi-region
or a Manual execution to do step by step Runbook mode.
So I will choose Rates Control, okay,
to restart my EC2 Instances with approval.
And the target is going to be for example, Instance IDs.
And then we can choose based
on a resource group just like before.
Or we can, for example, say on Tags
or Parameter values, or just All Instances.
So in this example, let's choose a resource group
to change things up.
And I want to operate it on the Dev.
So it means I want to restart all my Dev Instances.
So we need to provide Instance IDs, but as you can see,
because we've specified our Resource Group,
then the Instance ID is going to be filled.
And then Approvers.
So, IAM user or user arn to approve
for the automation action.
And so I think that it's not going to be easy to do so.
So I'm just going to roll this back
because I'm not using an IAM user
and I want to make it as simple as possible.
But if we look again at this address, Restart Commands.
And use this one. We're good to go.
Next.
So again, the Rate Control is going
to be done on Instance ID for the DevGroup.
We're going to need to have an ARN for the role.
That's the Automation Assume
to perform the automation on your behalf.
And this is if you want to have the automation user role
that is different than the one
that you're currently using right now
to launch this automation.
So, I will not specify an IAM role,
but you could specify one if you wanted to.
Now for the Rate Control is going
to be one target at a time.
And if there's one error, then please stop this automation.
Okay, let's execute it.
And now the execution has been initiated
for my RestartECInstance.
So, we can have a look at the steps.
So let's refresh this page in here.
So currently one step is being executed, okay.
Which is to execute this automation.
And so I can click on the step itself
to have a look at what is done.
So, the Execution ID is right here.
And two steps were executed.
So number one is stop Instances.
So we'll change the Instance state and this is in progress.
So if I go into my EC2 Management Console and have a look,
as you can see, this one is being stopped, okay.
Which was the first step of my automation.
And then there's a second step that is going to happen,
which is to start my Instance.
So this one was a success.
And now the Instance that was stopped is now being started.
So if I go back into my Management Console and refresh this,
We're in pending state.
That means that my Instance is being started.
So effectively, what we can do, for example,
using this automation is just restart
a full fleet of EC2 Instances,
without number one enabling SSH access.
And number two, we don't have to code a script for it
because, well, there is an automation available to us.
And if we had a script then,
embedding for example, different steps
and making during Rate Control
and looking at errors and looking at lugs
would be extremely complicated.
So this really shows the power of Automations within a SSM.
And as we can see, two executions are being done.
So one of them on one Instance,
and then on the other Instance at this Rate Control.
And so what we will do is that,
while now the three of them are running
and one of them soon we'll go down
and we'll be stopped and so on.
So you get the idea?
But this is the whole part of automations.
And hopefully they open up your mind
around how you use AWS.
So I would strongly suggest if you have some time
to go into your documents, okay.
And you need to just look at documents
that are going to be of type, Automation
and have a look at what is offered by AWS
in terms of documents.
There's a lot of them, but they can help you imagine
and understand how you can leverage automations better
within your infrastructure.
So that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it.
And make sure that the automation was successful at the end.
So go back in here and make sure it was good.
But I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.